>> Francois Jouaux: Welcome to
Automating the Creation of iPad Content,
Tools for the New Desktop Publishing Revolution.
Wow. Good title like this.
Either they are a car salesman or there's
something really interesting here.
Let's see.
And I forgot my teacup.
[ Silence ]
Hello. I am Francois Jouaux.
I am the Senior Manager of System Tools
at Apple, and also Engineering Manager
of Automation which means they make me code.
And what is this session about?
This session is about the relationship
between automation and iPad content creation.
It's about the role automation will have to take in
iPod content creation, and the tools and techniques
that are available today to simplify your life.
Who is this session for?
There's a very wide spectrum of people
that want to create content for the iPad.
These range from students, teachers
that want to publish papers,
that want to publish art, photos,
illustrations to your boss.
People that are coding impaired.
People unlike you.
You have to relate to these people and help them
distribute and manage the content that they have created
on the desktop, and that they want to make
available to all the people that have iPads.
This session is about developers
because there is a market for such tools
that will enable the creativity of all the consumers.
What you will learn.
You will learn how automation can help you.
You will learn about the automation
technologies available today on Mac OS X.
And how to develop custom content
creation tools using these technologies.
What are these technologies anyway?
AppleScript is your English-like scripting language
that controls the Mac OS X operating system,
its applications on also third party applications.
Automator.
Our award winning visual workflow development tool.
With its hundreds of actions allows you
to create powerful recipes and services
since Mac OS X Snow Leopard services put at your
point-of-need contextual menus that allow you.
That gives you the power and the ability
to harness these automation technologies.
And to talk to you about this into more detail, dealing
you with some crazy demo, here is Sal who you all know.
[ Applause and cheers ]
>> Sal Soghoian: Sick, sick, sick.
Anybody who gets up at 9:00 in the morning to hear me
talk is insane, so I'm in a roomful of crazy people.
I'm Sal Soghoian.
I am officially the Product Manager for Automation
Technologies at Apple Computer for the last thirteen years.
And this has been.
Out of thirteen years of being at Apple, this has been one
of the most exceptional years that I've seen at the company.
You know, with the release of the iPad and just all the
changes that are going on, the dramatic movement forward
and pushing the platform and integrating new and
groundbreaking technologies, it's a lot of upheaval,
a lot of disruption, a lot of creativity.
So people might have a question about well, how
does this relate to Mac OS X now that we have iPads?
Well, if history is anything to judge
about what's going to be coming up,
we in the automation community are really excited
about our prospects and about what we can do to make
and assist concrete, the creation of
content for the iPad moving forward.
And I'll start by giving you a brief little history
about the concept behind desktop publishing.
Now back in like 1990 or the early '90s,
or the end of whatever decade that was,
there was an invention of a new technology called
PostScript which defined the way things looked on a page.
And they integrated this technology into printers, laser
printers, into Linotronics, and into the Macintosh.
And for the first time, using programs like Ready,Set,Go!
and PageMaker, designers and publishers
were able to produce content
that they could never do before in a really timely fashion.
Because up to this point they were
taking photographs, stripping things in.
They had Hot Type, there were Ruby lists.
A lot of manual effort went in to produce a page.
And suddenly when that moved to the desktop
computer, it enabled a lot of creativity
and it enabled the faster processing
and turnaround of media.
Around 1993, AppleScript was introduced.
And with scriptable programs like QuarkXPress and
FileMaker Pro, all of a sudden we had the ability
to produce content based upon data sources like databases.
So catalogs and different types of
publications that were data intensive,
yet needed precision like weather
maps and stock figures for newspapers.
Those kind of materials could for the time be
produced in a timely fashion and with accuracy.
Because what AppleScript and automation delivered
was speed, accuracy, consistency and scalability.
So for the first time companies could scale what they
were doing without having to add a lot of new people
and deal with the aspect of dealing with
humans and time off and all that kind of stuff.
So this was a groundbreaking point when automation and
publishing combined for the first time electronically.
About the beginning of the last
decade of the last millennium.
Ooh, I like that.
Last millennium.
The Internet really boomed and started
becoming a commercial entity where people,
the focus on it was no longer this,
you know, creative education community.
And became wait a second, this thing is really big.
We need to communicate, we need to get our message out.
I need to tell you something.
I need to hear this.
And it really became a lot about communication.
So technologies were developed
like CSS, Cascading Style Sheets.
RSS, XML, and other Internet technologies joined HTML.
And really allowed the Internet to start
becoming a platform for development.
Again, automation played a role in that because with
AppleScript and tools like Automator, suddenly media,
being able to produce media in a timely fashion
and get it out to the public through podcasts,
audio and video podcasts, became possible.
So the concept that had started earlier in the mid
'90s is now coming to fruition and growing more
and more because the demand for content increased.
And here we are now at the beginning of this decade
and they've turbocharged some of the technologies
that they introduced for the Internet
like cascading style sheets and HTML5.
And they enhanced their abilities
to take it into the next decade.
Well, the same happened with automation.
With Snow Leopard we introduced something very dramatic.
It's called AppleScript Objective-C.
And for the first time AppleScript could
talk directly to the Cocoa frameworks.
So anything that is possible to be called from a
Cocoa app can now be called from AppleScript directly.
And this, combined with our revolutionary new
Services architecture that puts these tools
at the point-of-need contextually throughout
the OS, this really set it up for the delivery
of content to a whole new series of devices.
So as you can see throughout the whole electronic history,
automation has played a role in delivering content.
And if this is true, I have a feeling that
it's going to pertain and producing content
for the devices moving forward just the same way.
Because this device is going to spur a whole
new wave of desktop publishing revolution.
A whole new wave of content creation.
You're here because of that.
You're learning how to produce content.
You're learning how to create apps that
absorb content or deal with content.
So let's take a look at this device.
By itself, it's just a really handsome well-designed tool.
It doesn't have impact until you put something on it.
And then you can become, it becomes
a device that can inform.
It becomes a device that can find and locate
things, and help you get through and navigate.
It also becomes a device that helps you remember.
These are a couple friends of mine I lost this last year.
That's Leroy Moore and George Melvin, so that's to you guys.
So you can remember.
You can have photographs and videos that
help you see part of into your life.
And you can also use the device for
education as well with iTunes U,
and with third-party software like
MathBoard from Pala Software.
So the device, it's really the content that
makes this device important and makes it happen.
It's a great device, but without the content that
you produce and others produce it's just a device.
So how do you get content onto the iPod, iPad, iPod, iPad.
Puh-puh-puh-puh-puh-puh.
So let's take a look at some of the ways.
First of all, you can make a native app, right?
You can write an app and the app
can have, deliver its own content.
So you've seen things like, you know, USA Today has an app
and it gets content and displays it from within its own app.
We know about that.
You can also have productivity
applications like the iWork Suited Tools.
Or like Omni's programs where you
can create and share files.
And that's one way to get content between different iPads.
There's also electronic books.
You can deliver those through commercial
publishers and through the iBook Store.
Or you can use the open and free EPUB format and
create your own, and distribute those as well.
But one of the most exciting things
is, of course, podcasts keep.
You can now take podcasts and enhance them.
They're much more visually exciting, and
you can convey the messages a lot easier now
on an iPad because they're portable.
And one of the most exciting things that's now
available is this whole discussion of HTML5.
You know that a lot of the classes that
you've been seeing here are all about HTML5.
Well, we're going to look at how automation
plays a role in HTML5 and how, how can auto.
How can you automate the creation of HTML content?
So we're going to look at a couple different scenarios.
We're going to look at contextual tools.
What kind of automation tools can you have that
make it easier for you to process the materials
that you are going to put together and send to an iPad?
How do you deal with media?
How do you deal with compression of audio and video?
How do you deal with manipulating images?
How do you deal with talking to
databases and grabbing information?
So we're going to look at contextual tools, automated
tools that allow you to do these kind of things.
Then we're going to look at a technique
called Template Publishing.
This was first designed back in the '90s where
they were automating the creation of catalogs.
But the principles remain the same.
It's just at different destinations.
Instead of going to print, we're
now going to an HTML bundle.
But the principles about how you could take a template and
populate it instantly through automation remain the same.
And we're going to a look at a couple of those examples.
And then finally we're going to look at an interactive
Web example where automation not only creates the content,
but publishes it across the Internet and then responds
to the users when they interact with that content.
So those are three scenarios we're going to
look at in this short period of time today.
And the technologies we're going to look at, we're
going to examine that do this are of course Automator,
AppleScript, AppleScript Objective-C and Services.
So let's talk about contextual tools.
This is a great quote.
This was a Tweet from John.
I heart Automator.
Thought to myself wish I had a droplet that could
turn high-res H.264 into Apple TV-size H.264.
Took thirty seconds to make one.
John was talking about of course this technology, Automator.
We introduced Automator way back in Tiger.
But it's steadily progressed.
And what it does, it's a tool for visually
creating automation recipes called workflows
by joining together little nuggets of
pre-done automation called actions.
Now these actions are installed in the operating
system, and by default they have hundreds installed.
But you can download thousands of
third-party ones or create them yourself.
Because they're just Xcode projects that are written in
any of the languages supported by the operating system.
So if you write Objective-C or
AppleScript, Shell, Ruby, PERL, Python,
whatever code works on Mac OS X you can
use to create your own Automator actions.
And we're going to look at that.
And they're based upon a simple principle
that you've seen over and over and over again.
I'm by law required to do this slide, so
here's the frameworks of the operating system.
The applications sit on top of the frameworks.
The user triggers the applications
to talk to the system frameworks.
And then that does something good for the user.
We've seen this over and over.
You design an application, it might
be an image manipulation application.
It talks to Core Image.
And then does something to the
image that the user wants, right?
Basic concept.
We understand this.
But what you might not know is that Services
can do the same thing as an application.
When you write one of those Automator actions, it talks
to the frameworks the same way that an application does.
There's no framework that the application
can get at that the service can't get at.
So in many ways they're like mini apps themselves.
But one other thing in addition is
that they can control applications.
So a service can interact with an application
and get the application to do something,
as well as talk to the frameworks in the operating system.
They're really powerful.
So you can gain access to all the different
abilities of the operating system through Automator.
That includes applications, it
includes the command line, Core Video,
Core Audio, Core Data, Core, Core, Core, Core, Core.
And even the media frameworks.
All of that's exposed to you when
you write an Automator action.
Then once you've created these, you
can expose them through Services.
Services is the architecture that provides
point-of-need access to the power of the OS.
So up in the Services menu, in the Application
menu you have the ability to access Services.
In the Finder, in the Action menu you can access
Services contextually based upon what you have selected.
The same with the contextual menu in the Finder,
or the contextual menu in other applications.
So if you have text selected, you only
see the services that pertain to text.
Or pertain to the type of text that you're looking for.
So no longer do you have to open up an
image in an application to rotate it
or apply effects to it or do anything else to it.
Because all of that ability that's part of the operating
system can now be exposed contextually at the point-of-need.
You can be in an application like Mail, look
for a certain kind of data like an address,
and tell Mail to make a new document
with that and pre-address it.
No longer do you have to write a plug-in to Mail to do that,
because the Services architecture gives you contextual
access to whatever is selected in the application.
And then you can apply that power to it.
And you can do way beyond what a browser plug-in can do.
You can select data in one form,
transform it into another form.
Take it to a different application and put it into that
application as I just did here by selecting Table Data
in Safari, turning it into a pie
chart that I put into pages.
This goes way beyond being just a browser extension.
You have total access to the entire OS,
and you're only limited by your creativity.
So tools for content preparation is talking about creating
these kind of contextual tools and using these kind
of contextual tools that manipulate the content, the
raw content in preparation for getting it to the iPad.
Make sense?
Hmm-hmm-hmm?
Okay, good.
Now HTML Template Publishing.
Simple concept.
Basic concept.
It's been used for out, since the Egyptian
used cuneiform they used template publishing.
It's a basic concept.
Once you understand it you can spend
a lot of money on pre-done systems
that do exactly the same thing that you can do yourself.
And it's about taking something that you're going
to use over and over, and making it generic enough
that you can replace certain things inside of
that template to end with a finished product.
Not everything about content is hand done.
We don't do one-offs for every kind of thing that we do.
There's a lot of templates that
we use in life that we're used to.
And as long as they're attractive and functional and
they serve the users by having a decent interface,
we're very happy as consumers to use templates.
And you can automate them.
They're great for automation.
So here's a scenario of why is that important?
Welcome to the classroom of the future.
You notice everybody sitting there with their iPad, right?
And so there's our teacher.
She's from like 1800.
And she's wondering well, how do I get content?
I want to create this little thing
and deliver it to their iPads.
How do I do that?
And the students are saying the same thing.
They're going hey, how do we take
my little report and my photos
and my little video and deliver that as content to the iPad?
Do I write an app and then submit that to the store?
Or, you know, like exactly how do you do this?
And this is where template publishing
can really come into play.
Because you can take the raw content, the stories, the
videos, the audio clips, all of that kind of stuff,
and using Services you can convert them
into Web-Apps which are just HTML bundles
that you can automatically upload to
a server like your MobileMe account.
And then thwat!
It shows right up on the iPad as a
full screen interactive type of thing.
So we're going to look at one of
those scenarios of how that's done.
Especially with the single view apps.
So the first template that we created for
you was this one of just a single page.
I have a report.
I have a flowing text document.
I want to display that on the iPad.
Oh, and I want to add an image or maybe an audio clip, okay?
That's about it.
I just want it to be quick and
dirty, but to have it look nice,
be accessible to anybody with a Web browser or with an iPad.
So this is an example we're going to look at.
Then we're also going to look at
if you want more interactivity.
What if you want something that has
different screens and different views?
And you can navigate it and it acts
just like a regular functional app.
Can something as complex as this be automated?
Yes, because this is just basically a template and you
populate it with certain materials and media files.
And it becomes a functional app, so
that you have this beautiful interface.
And it begins with three different technologies.
The first is HTML5.
You can think of HTML5 as like when you're building a
building and you have a metal steel frame it hangs onto.
It provides the foundation that
this app is going to hang onto.
It has video and audio support through the video/audio tags.
It has Web font integration, scalable vector graphics,
and canvas support too so you can have
that interactive canvas thing in HTML.
I stole these from Darren.
Darren, if you're out there don't be mad at me.
And of course it reuses WebKit, that set of APIs that
provides all the interactive transitions like you saw.
The fades, the twistings, the, you
know, special effects, the dissolves.
All that kind of stuff is done with WebKit.
So the first technology that we use that
we're going to automate is this HTML5.
The second one is cascading style sheets.
Now we're used to the idea that style
sheets control type, on how type looks.
But style sheets also control positional.
So they can control where things
are located on the document as well.
And apply effects to the objects that are in there.
And the third technology is the wiring and it's JavaScript.
And it's for when you click a button, that sends
the signal down the wire to a JavaScript controller
that triggers the CSS transforms that
make something happen on the computer.
So that's the basic structure of what
goes on with these type of bundles.
All of those files live in a folder.
You've got your JavaScript.
You've got your CSS, your HTML.
All the media in there.
Everything lives in this folder, and it becomes
this little interactive website called the Web-App.
But for the user all they're going to do is just
select Images or something, and bring up an interface.
You're going to wire up this interface so
that when they choose a setting that setting,
each one replaces some placeholder in the template.
So you're going to replace the letter space
placeholder with the value of that control.
And we're going to use Cocoa bindings
and all that kind of stuff to do that.
And then those values control how the media
is finally displayed with the thing itself.
So the steps to develop your own
content creation tools, very simple.
One, you design and build your HTML template.
You basically steal anything that you like.
You go out there, you look at it and go
oh, I like the way he does this or --
and you basically take your HTML kind of designs
and you insert at key points placeholders.
Then second, you create an interface that's going to
gather the media and gather the settings from the user.
Now if you're creating a service the media
is automatically passed into your service
so you don't have to do anything special for that.
Third, then you're going to add the code inside of
your little control for replacing the placeholders
and scaling the media or doing whatever
processing you need to do to it.
So let's take a look at the contextual tools and
this thing of HTML plumbing.
Is this semi-interesting?
>> Audience: Yes!
>> Sal Soghoian: Okay.
[ Applause ]
So here's a video clip on my desktop.
I just wanted to see if I could actually take 30 seconds
and make the tool that John Gruber talked about, okay?
So I want to convert this from like this big down to
something that I could actually put on an iPad, all right?
So to make the tool I'm going to
open Automator, launch on O.
Botosan! And here's your blank Automator window.
I'm going to create a new service and the service
is going to handle, hmm, movie files in the Finder.
And then I'm going to look for something that does encoding.
Encode Media.
I'm going to add that action into there.
Yes, this does it.
And then I'm going to have it Show When Run,
save my service as Movie Bullet Encode Media.
Like that, Save and Quit.
Okay, so now when I need to encode a movie file in
the Finder I can just go down here and go Encode Media
and then say okay, make this for the iPad.
Go. And you can see up at the top
here there's a little spinning gear.
That means that the workflow is processing it.
And in a couple of seconds you should, depending upon
the size of this, you should see something over here.
So I made a tool.
[ Applause ]
You know, how many times do you.
Okay, better move this to the Movies
folder or something, right?
So how many times have you just wanted a quick
tool, quick and easy tool for compressing video?
Why do I have to open up an application to do that?
I've got all of Core Video at my disposal.
All you do is open up Automator, set it to
have an input that's a movie file, encode,
show me this when it runs so I can make my settings.
And then you're done.
Voila! So there's this simple example of what John was
talking about, of tying into the ability of getting that.
Now let's look at creating an HTML template bundle.
So I'm going to launch a service here that takes
me to various places in the operating system.
And I have a niece, Alice, and that's her.
God bless her.
She's gorgeous.
Look at her.
Look at those eyes.
And she really likes Alice in Wonderland.
That's her favorite book.
So I'm going to create a little small Web-App
that I can put up on my MobileMe account
that she can get to and read Alice in Wonderland.
So I have this image here, so I'm going
to do a couple things to the image
to make it a little bit more, you know, cooler.
I'm going to first of all apply a
little color sync profile to it.
And so I'm using a service here to make a.
Let's generate a little bit lightness.
Lightness increase?
Yes, that's good.
Okay, and do it.
Okay, it did it.
And then I'm going to apply like
a quartz filter effect to it.
Let's do something like oh, maybe a glow.
Get a clean edge on that and go.
Okay. That's good.
And well, as long as I'm doing
that let me put a title on it.
So I'm going to select the text
here of the file, Alice Goes to Tea,
and I'm going to create a banner
image with the selected text.
And bring up this Automator action
that basically will let me do this.
I'm going to make it like 128.
Make it blue or lavender.
Lavender will do.
And let's set the font for like Hobo.
Okay, that looks pretty good.
Put it on your desktop, open it up.
Yes, very good.
So open that and Select All C, V Paste.
Move it over here.
Okay. Good.
Save, Quit.
Okay. So now I have an image.
I have some text here.
Hmm, this is Chapter 7, The Mad Tea Party scene.
That's good reading.
So I'm going to use that.
And in addition I also have an audio file.
>> Voiceover: This is a LibriVox recording.
All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain.
>> Sal Soghoian: Okay.
>> Voiceover: For more information or to volunteer.
I don't quite understand you, she
said as politely as she could.
>> Sal Soghoian: Okay.
So this is a public domain of that chapter.
So it's an AIF file, so I need to compress it to something
I can actually put up there because it's about 180 megs.
So I'm going to go Encode to iTunes Format.
Do a spoken podcast format.
And just go Continue and let that go to work.
So it's working on compressing that right now.
So I'm going to take the, that audio file.
I'm going to take the image, and I'm
going to take this text and convert it
into using Template Publishing into a single page Web-App.
So I'm going to select all the text here.
And then I'm going to hold down the Contextual key and
go hey, create single page Web-App with selected text.
Brings up my interface.
The title is Alice in Wonderland.
I have an O impediment.
Subhead is Alice Has Tea With Some Strange Friends.
She'll like that.
Author of course is Lewis Carroll.
And instead of a copyright, I'm using a
creative commons license that I put in here.
And I'm going to have, use the image file as in there.
And I'm also going to add the audio
file right with it as well.
And let's see, that's it right there.
Okay. And give you the description, Chapter 7 From the Book.
And some keywords party, fun.
And I'll leave the type.
Let's see, I'll set the type for the subhead to be 24.
The author, I'll make that 18.
And the story I'm going to put in to
Bradley Hand font and make that 24.
And the background let's use, hmm, oh, Icy Lavender.
All right.
Go. So it creates a bundle for me on
the desktop, and then opens up my page.
So now I have.
Can you see that?
I have a scrolling document that's sized to the iPad.
And with a creative commons license
built in so that, you know,
you can go and tell people that they can use it as well.
And in addition, it also has that audio.
>> Voiceover: Let's say, that's the same thing you know.
>> Sal Soghoian: Okay.
So that's what I want.
Now let's take this and I want to
make sure that she can use that.
So here's the bundle that was created by this.
And if we look inside the bundle we
can see that it's a small Web-App.
It only has one Index page.
The Index page contains everything.
It contains your basic controls for the iPad up here.
It contains your built-in style sheet.
And then it contains all the other HTML,
so it's not a lot but it's the principle.
And it contains my Media files.
And it also contains the manifest that tells your
iPad what to cache, so that once she loads it
on her iPad she can view it later offline as well.
So I can take this folder.
I'm going to rename it Alice.
And now I want to publish this folder.
So I'm going to select this and choose Copy to
My MobileMe Site's Folder and Generate An Email.
Okay. And let's watch it work.
[ Silence ]
You never know with MobileMe.
Did it actually do it?
It should have dismounted that.
Okay, it didn't want to do it because I already have it
done because I thought something like this might happen.
Okay. So I'm going to go up here and pull up that.
So this is what it'll look like on the iPad, only nice.
Not like that.
So you can scroll.
Yeah!
[ Applause ]
You know. And then you have all the
way down and you get this whole thing.
And then there's the creative commons license right there.
And in addition you have the audio,
so I can touch the audio.
Try it again.
There it goes.
>> Voiceover: This is a Libri [inaudible] then.
And said without opening its eyes, of course.
>> Sal Soghoian: So I pretty quickly
delivered what I wanted to do.
I wanted to create a simple template app that
I can publish easily to have my niece be able
to read and listen to this story as well.
[Background Voiceover] So that's an example.
The principle there, the principles
that are involved with doing
that remain the same whether it's
large or whether it's a small project.
You're creating a basic Web app where you have placeholders.
And the automation takes the content, manipulates it the
way it wants to, puts it in the appropriate location.
Takes the interface, takes the
information out of the interface.
Replaces the placeholders with the
information from the interface.
Publishes it and you're done.
For a lot of stuff you're going to do,
especially in education, this is more than enough.
This is a really good example of
quick and easy automation techniques.
Now what if you want to do something that's
a little bit more involved with more detail?
So let's go back here and go back into this.
So what if I wanted to provide her with something that
was a little bit more than just a simple Web page?
The Web page is nice because it can be
viewed on the computer as well as an iPad.
But what if I wanted to create some type of storage
vehicle for information that she could take with her?
Well, an eBook is a great way to do that.
But how do you create an eBook?
Uh, I don't know and I don't want to know.
That's the whole thing, is I don't want to know.
I don't really want to know how to write the
HTML but I'm forced to because of my job.
But I just like using these tools of select
this, select that, go, build, all right, done.
So let's take a look at making an eBook.
Ooohhh! This is getting interesting.
>> Attendee: Switch your [inaudible] source.
>> Sal Soghoian: Oh, switch the source.
Okay, yes.
Nope, wrong source.
I'm already done here.
Ah! Okay, so here I have chapters from the book.
These are Open Source, you know, chapters from the thing.
I got it. Okay.
And I want to create and publish an eBook to
this computer over here to my iPad doing this.
So I'm going to select these three.
Here we go.
Francois, holding on, babe.
Create and Sync Electronic Book.
Okay. Title will be Alice in Wonderland.
Save as Alice Book on the desktop.
I'm going to first of all add the cover image.
Well, let's search my library for Alices.
What do I got?
I want the cover image.
This one will be vertical, okay.
Then I want to add some more media.
You know, I'm going to use that movie.
Use that movie that I created.
Where is it?
RabbitHole.m4v.
There it is.
Okay, Add.
And then I'm going to just add every Alice image I have.
All the remaining Alice images,
and let them find their spot.
Select All except for this one, and add all of those guys.
And if I lived right, we're going to do it.
So it creates the publication.
It's opening up iTunes.
It should be adding it to iTunes and then doing a sync.
And then na-na-na-na-na-na.
Nope. Boy, this is living large.
[ Silence ]
Whoa! You see that?
>> Attendee: Yeah, we do!
[ Applause ]
>> Sal Soghoian: This is what happens
when you live on the bleeding edge.
Ah! All right.
Whoa, down the Rabbit Hole.
Cool. Have video.
Okay, let's go to my chapters.
Oh, Pool of Tears.
Every chapter begins with an image, so
I'll go back to there and I can turn pages.
Whoop, whoop, whoop, whoop.
Okay, very good.
And it even has illustrations, so all the other
images that I put in are at the end of the book.
That's illustrations.
So now I created something that Alice can take with her.
I created an eBook.
Automated using Services and my Mac.
This is how you automate content to get it to these devices.
Here's another scenario.
Let's take a look at another one.
Okay. Whew!
That worked.
That was good.
You never know with demos.
You know how it is.
All right.
So let's look at creating something that's more interactive.
That whole interactive kind of thing with the screens
moving back and forth and all the little transitions.
I have some images selected here on my desktop.
I'm going.
>> Attendee: [Inaudible].
>> Sal Soghoian: Switch.
Thank you.
I have images selected on the desktop here.
Of course they're contextual, so when I go to the
Contextual menu I get the things only dealing with images.
While I also have this thing called Create
iPad Photo Web-App and it brings this up.
First image file, whatever you want.
Background audio, what do I have for audio?
Something called Bubbles.
Yeah, that'll do.
And now my cover I want without a story.
My photo carousel, add the caption data out of the images.
For my text, let's use something fun.
Party 72, make it yellow.
The byline, make it Bradley Hand 18.
Captions, let's make that Bradley Hand too, 14.
That's fine.
Title will be Tropical Fish.
Let's add some letter space into the title as well.
And make it part of my animal project, my animal
kingdom project that I've been working on.
Photographer is Herman Melville.
See him when you get that.
Copyright 2010, iStockphoto.com.
And a description, Pretty Pictures of Fish.
Whoo! Go. Again, a bundle's made on my desktop.
And I get something looking like this.
So I have a little button for.
[ Bubble sounds ]
So I can navigate this, right?
You see the caption data that was extracted from the image?
If you click the image it goes full screen.
I mercifully didn't loop the background noise.
See? And back and forth like that, right?
And back to the Home screen.
Now I have a version of that over here
on the iPad but I have to turn that.
[ Silence ]
Okay. Pat, I need the audio.
Play the audio so you can hear it.
[Bubble sounds] All right.
It works, right?
[Bubble sounds] Look.
All right.
So now I can go and I can scroll the text there, touch here.
A template.
A photo carousel template.
It's just a little HTML thing, and
then you have full screen style sheet.
Back down again and then back to Home.
Then I have a video page I added to this one, Fish Swim.
Of course it's all built in so HTML5
handles the going up and down, right?
I can stop that and go back to my Home screen.
So there's an example of just selecting files.
I could have selected them in iPhoto.
I could have selected them in Aperture or the desktop.
And generating this bundle, this HTML
bundle automatically using automation.
So get the idea?
You basically take some templates.
You write a little bit of code that generates these things.
And you can produce this kind of content quickly.
It's not going to change the world content, but
it's the content that you can use over and over.
It's attractive, it's interesting, and
it's a great vehicle for delivering ideas.
All right.
So that's some examples of doing basic content creation.
The third thing we were going to
talk about is Interactive Web.
Now this I'm really standing out
on the edge with this because I'm,
this is actually going to be live
over the network and, you know.
You know how those kind of things go, right?
All right.
All of you turn off everything you got.
I don't care what everyone.
All right.
So here's a scenario.
[ Audience chuckling ]
Here's a scenario.
So I have a friend, it's Joe.
Joe is a photographer.
Joe has a bunch of images.
He's working on an ad campaign for a client.
He needs to know what images he's going to use in
the ad out of the prospective images that he has.
You know, he's in Cupertino.
He's working away at night.
His client, jet setter Francesca, is over in Paris about
to get on board the airline to fly back to the States.
So the question is, is how does Joe communicate
the options to Francesca and get her pick
and understand that all within this deadline?
How do you do this?
Well, you use something called Publish for
Approval, so he's going to do this technique.
What he's going to do is he's going to open up Aperture.
He's going to select the images that he
wants to have his client approve and view.
Then he's going to run an AppleScript
application called Publish for Approval.
What this application does is it exports the images,
creates a mini website, hosts it in his person,
on his computer in the Web server folder.
Turns on the built-in Apache of Mac OS X.
And then opens up the Web page for him to review.
If he likes that, then he just goes up
there, goes Mail a Link to This Page.
Creates an e-mail, sends the e-mail message to the client.
Then he goes back to Aperture, creates a Smart
Album looking for a keyword called Approved,
a metadata tag called Approved with a value of True.
That's all he does.
So he sets it up, goes have, go gets a donut or coffee.
Or he's eating late so it's probably
mung beans or something.
Who knows.
So Francesca meanwhile, who's in Paris,
she gets the e-mail, taps the link.
It opens up to that Web page being served on his machine.
She picks the images that she wants
to approve for use in the ad campaign.
Clicks the Submit button.
The moment she clicks that button, instantly it transfers
back to his computer and switches the metadata tag
so that he can see live what images are the
ones that the client wants to work with.
He didn't have to call her.
He didn't have to e-mail her low-res
versions of all the images.
He didn't have to try to gen a website.
He didn't have to do any of that.
He just ran a simple application that would do that.
So in this scenario, the automation not only builds
the website, turns it on on his computer and hosts it.
But it also acts as a CGI intermediary, so that when
the client responds it triggers something in Aperture.
All right.
So the first thing I'm going to do is to just make sure my
Web sharing is turned on and this should be interesting.
The Apple turned it on, but I'm going
to be a little proactive here with this.
Go Aperture.
[ Silence ]
Okay. I don't want to import from the iPad.
So I have Tropical Fish here.
This is my collection of tropical fish.
Very good.
And then I'm going to run this
program called Publish for Approval.
I am going to give the collection ID a unique
identifier that will be used in the URL.
And then title for the Web page will be Tropical Fish.
A banner image.
[ Silence ]
Pictures, banner.
There's the banner image.
And I want the export size to be like 1024 published for me.
So it's preparing the project folder, the Web folder.
It's exporting all the images in there.
Writing all the HTML that it needs to do.
[ Silence ]
Processing the Web pages.
This is what it looks like.
Hey, pretty good.
Very good.
Okay, File.
Mail link to this page.
Boy, this is living large.
Pablo Picasso, Tropical Fish.
Send it.
[ Whoosh ]
It worked.
All right.
Let's go over here.
And then I go to Mail.
[ Silence ]
Hey! Tap the link.
Okay. And I prepare over here so that I switch back to this.
There's nobody there.
Okay, I have an empty, just to show you,
I have an empty thing over here, right?
There's my Smart Album.
Go back over here.
Okay. So then I just tap this, Approved.
Tap that, Approved.
Submit. And then I go back over here and voila!
[ Applause ]
Thank you.
So there's an example of how automation.
This is stuff that's built into Mac OS X.
The automation technologies that are part of Mac OS X
can be used in a variety of ways to produce content,
to become interactive to really make
your life a lot more interesting.
So in summary, you can use automation to build stuff.
It makes it easier to create content.
Now you can use it just as yourself as a consumer.
Or you can write these tools yourself
to have other people do them.
And it's all, everything you're seeing is coming soon.
But actually everything you just saw you can have today.
There's a new website.
It's called padilicious.com.
I put it up just for you guys.
P-A-D-I-L-I-C-I-O-U-S.com, Padilicious.
So Padilicious, you're going to go there and
you're going to download the examples I showed you.
You can install them, tear them apart, do whatever you like.
You'll find the single web page thing there.
You'll find the Tropical Fish kind of building thing there.
And soon we'll be putting up the eBook.
The eBook's not quite ready for prime time yet.
Give us a week and we'll have that up.
To learn how to do this kind of stuff and how to
create these, or to just go download dozens and dozens
of pre-done services like the ones I used
today, you can go to macosxautomation.com.
That contains three websites, AppleScript,
Automator and Services.
Lots of tutorials, videos.
All the backup stuff that you need is on those two sites.
Don't talk to John.
Leave him alone.
Related sessions.
Now there's just so.
If you have automation at your back, all of a sudden
all of these sessions become pretty interesting
because you can use them to create your own templates that
you're going to pre-populate and tear apart and build.